## Special characters

character | length|  description
-- | -- | --
\n | 1 |	New line
\r | 1 | 	Carriage return: not used alone. Windows text files use a combination of two characters \r\n to represent a line break.
`\'`  `\"` | 1 |	Quotes
\\	| 1 | Backslash
\t |	1 | Tab
\b, \f, \v	| 1 |  Backspace, Form Feed, Vertical Tab – kept for compatibility, not used nowadays.
\xXX	| 1 | Unicode character with the given hexadecimal unicode XX, e.g. '\x7A' is the same as 'z'.
\uXXXX | 1 |  A unicode symbol with the hex code XXXX in UTF-16 encoding, for instance \u00A9 – is a unicode for the copyright symbol ©. It must be exactly 4 hex digits.
\u{X…XXXXXX} | 2 | (1 to 6 hex characters)	A unicode symbol with the given UTF-32 encoding. Some rare characters are encoded with two unicode symbols, taking 4 bytes. This way we can insert long codes.

## Accessing characters
```js
alert( str[0] ); //  if not found, return undefined
alert( str.charAt(0) ); // if not found, return ''
```
```js
// iterate over string
for (let char of "Hello") {
  alert(char); // H,e,l,l,o (char becomes "H", then "e", then "l" etc)
}
```

## String char are not changable
```js
let str = 'hello';
str[0] = 'j' // str will not be changed
```

## Searching for a substring
`str.indexOf`
  * if match str is found, return position of first matched index
  * if not found, return -1
  * can take second argument to set the start position
  ```js
  let str = 'Widget with id';
  alert( str.indexOf('Widget') ); // 0, because 'Widget' is found at the beginning
  alert( str.indexOf('id', 2) ) // 12, start from the position 2, so the first matched position is 12
  ```
  * str.lastIndexOf, search from end to beginning
  * to check if a str is found
  ```js
  if(str.indexOf('str') === -1){
    console.log('found it');
  }
  // a shorter but not recommend way to check it
  let str = 'str111'
  if(~str.indexOf('str')){
    console.log('found it');
  }
  ```
`includes` `startWith` `endWith`
 * `includes`, return true/false if a str in included
 * `startWith` `endWith` return true/false if start with or end with by the string
 * can take second argument to set start position
 ```js
 alert( "Widget".includes("id", 3) ); // false, from position 3 there is no "id"
 alert( "Widget".startsWith("Wid") ); // true, "Widget" starts with "Wid"
 alert( "Widget".endsWith("get") ); // true, "Widget" ends with "get"
 ```
## Getting a substring
`str.slice(start, end)`, return the string from start position to end (not including the end) (**recommend**)
```js
'hello'.slice(1,3) // el
'hello'.slice(1) // ello, no second argument, then return start position to end
'hello'.slice(-4, -1) //ell, negative value is start from end poition (-1)
```
`str.substring(start, end])`, return the string between start and end, and start can larger than end
```js
alert( str.substring(2, 6) ); // "ring"
alert( str.substring(6, 2) ); // "ring"
alert( str.substring(-4, -1) ); // negative value are not supported, they are treated as 0
```
`str.substr(start, length)`, return the string from start position with the defined length
```js
let str = 'hello';
str.substr(1,2) //el
str.substr(-3, 2) //l1, first argument can be negative, to find start point from end
```
## Comparing strings
All strings are encoded using UTF-16. Each character has its unique code
`str.codePointAt(pos)`, returns the code for the character at position pos (work with surrogate pairs)
`String.fromCodePoint(code)`, creates a character by its numeric code (work with surrogate pairs)
**Note: a surrogate pair means the symbol cannot be represented by two-byte code, the length of such symbol is 2**
`str.localeCompare(str2)`, compare strings according to the language rules
* Returns a negative number if str is less than str2.
* Returns a positive number if str is greater than str2
* Returns 0 if they are equivalent
`String.fromCharCodet` and `str.charCodeAt` are same as `str.codePointAt(pos)` and `String.fromCodePoint(code)` but cannot deal with a surrogate pair. 

Reference: [javascript.info/string](https://javascript.info/string)
